HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader: Republicans
believe we have a
responsibility to act, and
we are.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Senate
Republicans unveil
their health care bill.
We break down the most
controversial details
and political stakes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm
Judy Woodruff reporting
from Colorado at the Aspen
Institute's Spotlight
Health Conference.
I get reaction to the Senate
plan from one of the architects
of Obamacare, former Secretary
of Health and Human
Services Kathleen Sebelius.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, Former
U.S. Health and Human Services
Secretary: Fixing the Affordable
Care Act is important.
The Trump administration, I
would suggest, has done nothing
but sabotage the act since
they came to office.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also
ahead on the "NewsHour":
Hunger plagues Venezuela.
With skyrocketing food prices
and an economy in freefall,
malnutrition hits the country's
most vulnerable citizens.
And where low-income Americans
go when they don't have bank
accounts, Making Sense of
the multibillion-dollar
industry that is still
largely unregulated.
LISA SERVON, University
of Pennsylvania: What's
interesting is that even
my boss at the payday
lender said, payday is a lousy
product, but we're filling
a need that nobody else will
fill.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
All that and more on
tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: The battle
lines are forming tonight in the
Senate over replacing Obamacare.
Republican leaders released
details of their bill today,
but Democrats are rejecting it
outright, and some in the
GOP are not happy either.
Lisa Desjardins
begins our coverage.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: It's time to act,
because Obamacare is a direct
attack on the middle class, and
American families deserve better
than its failing status quo.
LISA DESJARDINS: After weeks
of work behind closed doors,
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell
made the Senate Republican
bill public this morning.
It shares some broad strokes
with the bill that House
Republicans passed in may.
It would cut Medicaid
overall and impose annual
limits on spending.
It also repeals the individual
mandate penalty under Obamacare,
and it would end most of
the taxes that paid for
the Affordable Care Act.
The bill lets states
waive required coverage of
essential health benefits.
That's things like mental
health and hospital care.
And it blocks federal funds to
Planned Parenthood for one year
and for health plans that cover
most abortions.
Democrats unanimously
oppose the measure.
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer:
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: Simply put, this bill
will result in higher costs,
less care, and millions of
Americans will lose their
health insurance, particularly
through Medicaid.
It's every bit as bad
as the House bill.
In some ways, it's even worse.
LISA DESJARDINS: House Speaker
Paul Ryan welcomed the Senate's
action, without getting into
the details.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of
the House: I know how hard
this is to pass a bill like
this.
What was helpful to us, that we
didn't have Senate leadership
playing armchair quarterback
with us.
The last thing I want
to do is play armchair
quarterback with them.
LISA DESJARDINS: The
Senate did break with the
House on a few issues.
The Senate bill would phase
out the expansion of Medicaid,
but more slowly than the House,
ending it by 2024.
But, starting in 2025, the
Senate would cut all of Medicaid
more deeply than the House.
The Senate plan also keeps
protections for people with
preexisting conditions, while
the House bill would
let states waive those.
And the Senate bill continues
Obamacare subsidies, but
limits them to a smaller
group of lower-income
people.
Schumer says, taken as a
whole, the changes mean any
benefits are in name only.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER: The Senate
Republican health care bill
is a wolf in sheep's clothing.
Only, this Wolf has even sharper
teeth than the House bill.
LISA DESJARDINS: Disability
advocates and others protested
today outside Majority Leader
McConnell's office.
Capitol Police arrested
a number of them.
Republican leaders argued that
opponents need to look at the
actual text before criticizing.
SEN.
JOHN CORNYN (R), Texas:
They can read the bill.
If they have objections to the
provisions, we can debate them.
But what they're talking
about is a bill that doesn't
exist which they had not read.
LISA DESJARDINS: At the White
House, President Trump voiced
support and stressed this is
not a final draft.
DONALD TRUMP, President
of the United States:
Obamacare is a disaster.
It's dead, totally dead.
And we're putting a plan today
that's going to be negotiated.
LISA DESJARDINS: Those
negotiations started instantly.
Republicans can afford for just
two of their members to vote no.
And, today, Kentucky Senator
Rand Paul and three other
Republicans said they oppose it
as written.
SEN.
RAND PAUL (R), Kentucky: And
I believe the leverage on
account of four people is enough
that hopefully those who wrote
the bill would say we want some
or all of their votes, and,
therefore, we will try to make
the bill look more like a repeal
bill and less like a reiteration
of Obamacare bill.
LISA DESJARDINS: The
Congressional Budget
Office says it will
have its analysis of the
bill by early next week.
McConnell is pushing for a vote
two or three days after that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Lisa will
be back to help us analyze the
political prospects for the
Senate Republican health care
bill after the news summary.
In the day's other news:
President Trump declared he
didn't record conversations
with FBI Director
James Comey.
He'd raised the possibility
that tapes existed after
he fired Comey last month.
Today, on Twitter, the president
said: "I have no idea whether
there are tapes or recordings
of my conversations with James
Comey, but I didn't make, and do
not have, any such recordings."
The president also expressed
frustration again today
about Russia's hacking
of the presidential
campaign.
He stated on Twitter that the
Obama administration should have
taken action, since it was still
in office at the time.
And he charged the whole thing
is a hoax pushed by Democrats.
Gulf Coast states took
a thrashing today after
Tropical Storm Cindy
slogged ashore overnight
with heavy rain.
Flooding was reported from Texas
to Florida, and Alabama Governor
Kay Ivey warned the danger
is not over yet.
GOV.
KAY IVEY (R), Alabama:
This is not just a coastal
issue, for goodness sake.
This is about inland as well.
So, everybody needs to have
heads up and be alert to the
rising water that can effect
flooding.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The storm
has now weakened to a tropical
depression, but could bring
heavy rain all the way
to the Mid-Atlantic
region by the weekend.
In Afghanistan, the Taliban set
off a powerful car bomb today
that killed at least 34 people.
It happened in the capital of
Helmand Province in the south.
The suicide attack targeted
Afghan soldiers who were lined
up at a bank to receive their
paychecks.
But officials said most of
the dead were civilians.
The Associated Press
reports al-Qaida suspects
are being systematically
tortured in secret
prisons across Southern Yemen.
An AP investigation found
at least 18 sites run by the
United Arab Emirates and Yemeni
forces.
It said 2,000 men have
disappeared into the prisons,
where they have been beaten with
wires and roasted over fires.
U.S. officials say they have
no knowledge of the abuses.
British officials say testing
has found flammable siding on at
least seven high-rise buildings
since a London apartment
tower burned last week; 79
people died in the blaze.
Prime Minister Theresa
May's office said today
that 600 buildings in
the country have similar
siding, and all of
them need to be tested.
THERESA MAY, British Prime
Minister: Landlords have
a legal obligation to
provide safe buildings,
and where they cannot do
that, we expect alternative
accommodation to be provided.
We cannot and will not ask
people to live in unsafe homes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Opposition
leader Jeremy Corbyn called
for urgent checks on some 4,000
buildings.
Back in this country,
the Interior Department
says it's taking grizzly
bears in Yellowstone
National Park off the
endangered species list.
They have been protected since
1975, when there were only
136 grizzlies left around
Yellowstone.
Now there are more than 700.
The change could allow
for limited hunting of the
bears outside the park.
And on Wall Street, the Dow
Jones industrial average lost
12 points to close at 21397.
The Nasdaq rose two points, and
the S&P 500 slipped one point.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
former Health and Human Services
Secretary Kathleen Sebelius
on the Republican
plan to replace one of
her biggest legacies,
Obamacare; starvation in
Venezuela -- an economy in
freefall leaves the country in
dire straits; renewed outrage
over police shootings of black
Americans; and much more.
We return now to the health
care plan released today
by Senate Republicans.
To help break down the
controversial details
and politics, our own
Lisa Desjardins, who's
just returned from Capitol
Hill, and Mary Agnes Carey
of Kaiser Health News.
Mary, let's start with Medicaid.
How does this change what
we know Medicaid to be?
MARY AGNES CAREY, Kaiser Health
News: The biggest change is
how we change funding, federal
funding for the
Medicaid program.
Right now, states can
spend what they need.
It's matched on a percentage
basis, but this would shift the
Medicaid program to a capped
allotment, a set
amount of money.
And so the thought is over
time, would that allotment rise
fast enough to meet the medical
costs of the Medicaid
population, and, if it
doesn't, what do you do?
Do you reducing
payments to survivors?
Do you have to cut services?
Do you kick people
off the rolls?
That's one of the biggest
concerns about this bill.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But each
one of these changes are
political considerations.
Who does this lure in to
get those crucial yes votes?
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, we're
really talking about those
folks who are concerned about
the debt and deficit, because
the growth of Medicaid is a
real concern for the federal
budget.
That's absolute.
And for state budget as well.
But it loses some
votes potentially.
There are a lot of senators,
conservative Republican
senators, whose states depend on
Medicaid, who have high
proportions of Medicaid users.
Take Arizona.
How about Ohio, some of these
swing states, West Virginia.
I talked to Senator
McCain today.
He said he's not deciding what
he does until he speaks to
his governor to see what this
means for the state
budget and for Medicaid.
Also Alaska.
A lot of these rural states,
it's a real risk for them if
they lose Medicaid funding.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Are
there structural changes
to how Medicaid could
be changing beyond just
the expansion and how
the payments go back?
MARY AGNES CAREY: Well,
in the sense of structural
requirements, you could
have work requirements,
for example.
Governors could do that.
They could make those changes.
And, again, this getting
back to the growth and the
payments, that is a big concern.
Will it go fast enough?
Will it meet the
requirements of the Medicaid
program, the spending?
LISA DESJARDINS: Think of the
way that the Senate is doing
it as, up front, they're going
to let the expansion of Medicaid
last a little bit longer.
They ultimately would cut it,
but they will cut, in the long
run, 10 years out, the amount
that Medicaid can grow by.
So, in the short run, it's not
as tough on Medicaid as the
House bill, but in the long
run, it ends up cutting a
lot more than the House bill.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But even with
these measures, we saw Rand Paul
today and said, well, I have
got three other
senators with me.
We're not satisfied.
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes.
That's right.
They have a real vote problem
here, because they can only lose
two senators, as we reported
earlier.
And that's not just a Medicaid
problem, but it's a problem
from senators like Rand Paul
who are concerned about
tax credits and subsidies.
This bill essentially keeps
the Affordable Care Act
subsidies intact structurally.
It just reduces them.
But Rand Paul, he says
that's Obamacare-lite.
I'm not sure how he will ever
be satisfied unless they remove
those subsidies altogether.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mary Agnes, we
have also heard a conversation
about meanness or whether
this has enough heart.
When we talk about the
affordability of this,
the quality of the
coverage, how does this
bill address those?
MARY AGNES CAREY: Well, there's
a couple things, to Lisa's
point about the subsidies.
They would be linked to income,
like the Affordable Care Act,
but also like age, which was the
House bill.
So, at the top end of the scale,
there would be a little less
generous, a little more generous
at the lower end of the scale.
But the other thing about
this is, what is your money
going to buy with the subsidy?
The Senate bill would allow
the plans to be less generous.
Right now, the Affordable Care
Act, the sort of middle-level
plan that subsidy is based
on, would cover 70
percent of the cost.
Under the Senate
discussion draft, that
would drop to 58 percent.
So, would you have to pay more?
An older, perhaps a
higher-income person,
might pay more for less.
And so that whole benefit of
what you're getting for your
money, that is going to be a big
concern here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mary, one
of the things that President
Trump has put on the table
as a non-negotiable is
preexisting conditions.
That's something that was
very popular from Obamacare,
something a lot of people want
to keep.
How does this bill tackle it?
MARY AGNES CAREY: Preexisting
conditions would still
have to be covered.
But a state could get a
variance from the set of
essential health benefits.
These are 10 things that have to
be covered, mental health care,
prescription drugs, maternity
care.
States could get a
waiver from those.
So, there is some concern,
if a state could have plans
that didn't cover prescription
drugs or mental health
care, what would that
mean for beneficiaries?
There is concern there.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
one of the most divisive topics
on this always comes down
to Planned Parenthood
funding, specifically around
the cases of abortion.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
This was a late decision by
the Senate leadership here.
They went back and forth.
There was a lot of discussion
behind closed doors over this.
And in the end, this draft
right now would defund Planned
Parenthood, all of their federal
funding.
That's over $500 million for
that organization for one year.
Instead of defunding it forever,
it would be for one year.
Now, that still is a
very serious political
problem, especially
for two senators, Lisa
Murkowski of Alaska and
Susan Collins of Maine.
We talked to both of them today.
They said they haven't
decided, but they are
concerned about that.
They said if that remains in
the bill, and, again, there
is a lot of negotiations now,
Hari, if it's in the bill,
they are going to propose an
amendment to try and change
it.
That will be a fascinating
vote on the Senate floor.
We expect that.
Speaking of it, that's what
we need to watch right now.
There's going to be a lot
of horse-trading right
now behind closed doors.
Mitch McConnell
is counting on it.
This bill will change.
After it changes, then there
will be a process, we're
told, next week of amendments.
There will be a long
day with a lot of votes.
We will see how
many of them pass.
It really to me seems 50/50,
Hari, right now on whether this
gets through, certainly not
as it is now.
The question is,
how will it change?
HARI SREENIVASAN: And there
are still constituents,
Mary Agnes, that are on
the sidelines saying,
listen, covering opioid
addiction is really
important in my state,
West Virginia and Ohio.
There are people that going
to be lobbying to try to
get those in the bill.
MARY AGNES CAREY: Well,
that Medicaid expansion
has funded a lot of
opioid addiction treatment
in Ohio, for example,
and other states.
And if that goes away, how are
you going to help those folks?
As we know, it's the
number-one killer for
Americans 50 and older now.
LISA DESJARDINS: They have
put $2 billion in this bill to
help with opioids, but those
who are concerned say that's
just a drop in the bucket
and not nearly enough.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right.
Lisa Desjardins, Mary Agnes
Carey, thank you both.
MARY AGNES CAREY: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There
have been many responses
to the Senate plan today,
including from former
President Obama.
He said -- quote -- "Simply put,
if there's a chance you might
get sick, get old, or start
a family, this bill
will do you harm.
And small tweaks over the
course of the next couple weeks
cannot change the fundamental
meanness at the core
of this legislation."
And now to Judy Woodruff in
Aspen, Colorado, who spoke today
with a key figure in the Obama
administration about the
Republicans plan to undo much
of the Affordable Care Act.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we get
reaction to the Senate plan from
a woman instrumental in creating
the Affordable Care Act.
I sat down today with the former
Secretary of Health and Human
Services Kathleen Sebelius.
And I began by asking
her overall assessment
of the proposal.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, Former
U.S. Health and Human Services
Secretary: I think it follows
the unfortunate framework
of the House bill.
People will lose coverage.
We don't know how many until
the CBO actually scores the
bill sometime next week, but no
doubt there will be people
priced out of the marketplace.
We know that individual
costs will go up, which seems
really contrary to what people
are telling me they want.
They want to pay
less out of pocket.
They'd like the pay
less for their premiums.
But nothing in this
bill does that.
It changes the Medicaid programs
for every state in the country.
And, Judy, as you know,
I'm a former governor.
I ran a Medicaid program.
Medicaid has been a 52-year-old
partnership for state and
federal governments to take
care of the most needy
Americans, and then
was expanded in the
Affordable Care Act to
cover low-income working adults.
And there's a huge slash
in that program, again
proposed by the Senate.
It cuts Planned Parenthood
funding, which gives services
and support to millions of
women across the country.
So, it continues the
path that the House took.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me pick
up on the Medicaid point.
It is true that the House
bill did make deep cuts,
changes in Medicaid.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What Republican
senators say they are doing
is phasing this in, that they
stretched it out over
a longer number of --
longer period of years.
It delays the effectual date
of these changes in Medicaid.
So isn't this something
of an improvement, makes
it more acceptable?
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS: Well,
delaying the awful doesn't
make it less awful.
So I think having a few more
years of grace period is
probably a good thing, but they
make -- actually, in the
Senate bill, as I have read the
draft, they make deeper cuts
in the underlying
Medicaid program than
the House even suggested.
And that really affects every
state budget in the country.
Every governor receives from the
federal government the largest
amount of federal funds through
the Medicaid program.
It takes care of disabled
children and adults,
takes care of a lot of
poor seniors in nursing
homes.
It pays for half of the births
in the country and about 40
percent of children's health
insurance.
That's the underlying program.
You can't cut that program
without really harming services
to the most vulnerable Americans
and really blowing up state
budgets across the country.
It takes longer, but
it still happens.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But I think what
Republicans are arguing is that
Medicaid, as it's presently
structured, is unsustainable,
it costs too much for the
federal government, costs too
much for the states, and they
say they're taking steps to
make sure that it's there
in the longer run.
They also say they're creating
this fund with tens of billions
of dollars to take care of
some coverage gaps that have
been created by these changes.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS: Well, again,
I think it's important to
understand these populations
don't disappear.
So the federal government has
decided they will stop paying
for vulnerable people across
America, for poor seniors
in nursing homes, for poor
pregnant women and children, for
disabled children and adults.
They are capping the amount
of federal money that goes.
That doesn't change
the population.
So all it does is shift costs
to state budgets - - and a lot
of states do not have the extra
money -- to local budgets,
or to make sure that
people don't have services.
Every pot of money that is
talked about to cover the gap
in services is well under what
is being paid for right now.
So we're here talking about
opioid treatment and the crisis
that we have across America.
There is about $5.5 billion
this year being spent on mental
health services and opioids.
Nowhere near that amount
is being proposed as even
a multi-year funding plan.
If they take away Planned
Parenthood coverage
from pregnant women
and children, they then
have a huge gap in services.
So, I don't think they're being
very honest about who gets
affected and what happens to
those folks if the money is
cut at the federal level.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's go
back to the basic complaint
the Republicans have had.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that
this is, their complaint,
and even Democrats
acknowledge problems and
some serious problems with
the Affordable Care Act, the
cost of premiums going up, the
fact that many insurers
have pulled out of the
exchanges, what is it
now, dozens of countries
around the country that
only have one insurer.
These are fundamental problems
that had to be addressed one
way or another, aren't they?
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS:
You're absolutely right.
The coverage issues, getting
more insurers to offer coverage
across the country, needed
to be solved.
And there are solutions for
that with the re-insurance
pools that have been proposed.
People want to pay less.
And less means not
only premiums, because
about 85 percent of the
people get help with
their premium coverage.
But they want the pay
less out of pocket.
Again, none of this
bill does that.
In fact, it would shift
more cost on to individuals.
So, fixing the Affordable
Care Act is important.
The Trump administration, I
would suggest, has done nothing
but sabotage the act since
they came to office, refusing
to enforce the mandate, refusing
to tell insurers they will
pay the subsidies, which
has caused dropouts, and not
clarifying what the rules are.
So, companies are indeed
charging higher rates.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At the same
time, President Trump himself
has said he believes all people
should be covered
by health insurance.
He said again this week,
I want to see health
coverage that has heart.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS: Which would
be great, but that isn't what
is proposed in either the
House bill or the Senate bill.
And both President Trump
has declared as great bills.
Well, I haven't -- I apologize.
I haven't seen what he
said about the Senate bill.
He applauded the House for
their terrific bill, which took
coverage away from 23 million
Americans.
We don't know how bad the Senate
bill is going to be, but I
can guarantee you millions of
people will lose coverage
and pay higher costs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He
also called it mean.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS:
The House bill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The House bill.
Whatever happens#~ here, it looks
as if this is the beginning
of the end of Obamacare.
I mean, this bill -- right now,
there is some Senate opposition,
but they are working to
try to get something
passed through Congress.
It's a huge priority
for Republicans.
Is this the beginning of
the end for Obamacare?
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS:
It's hard to tell.
I think we have a
different conversation
now in America, which is
a good thing, that people
now say insurance companies
shouldn't ever again be
allowed to discriminate
against individuals
with preexisting
health conditions.
That conversation wasn't
even had five years ago.
There is some recognition
that health care for
all is a positive step
forward and shouldn't
be just available
depending on where you
work or where you live.
That's a good thing.
But what we're actually doing
in the future, I think, is
really important, who loses and
who gains.
And both the House bill and
the Senate bill fall most
heavily on the sickest, oldest,
and lowest-income Americans
and shift those dollars not
into the federal treasury, but
to tax breaks for the richest.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kathleen
Sebelius, former secretary
of health and human
services, thank you very
much.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS:
Good to be with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And tune
in tomorrow, when I
talk with Stephen Ubl.
He's the president
and CEO of PhRMA.
It's the drug industry's
largest trade group.
He will have a different
take on the challenges facing
our health care system.
Plus, there's more from Aspen
at the end of today's show,
when we will be meeting a chef
promoting health through
good food -- Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Judy.
Now to the crisis in Venezuela,
which takes many forms,
economic, political, social, but
perhaps nothing is more
harmful day to day than
shortages of medicine and food.
Put simply, many Venezuelans
are starving to death.
And their government often can't
or won't do anything to help.
In partnership with the Pulitzer
Center on Crisis Reporting,
special correspondent Nadja
Drost and videographer
Bruno Federico report.
And a warning: Images and
accounts in this story
may upset some viewers.
NADJA DROST: An hour outside
of the capital, Caracas, traces
of a once-productive industrial
and agricultural region flank
the highway outside the town
of Yare, an abandoned factory,
a farm, deserted and
overgrown, the carcass of
a government dairy project.
These buildings, like the
economy they once helped
support, are in collapse.
Katiuska Morales' husband
can only find occasional
work as a day laborer,
and the family faces
nationwide shortages of food
at runaway inflation prices.
KATIUSKA MORALES, Venezuela
(through translator):
Everything is expensive.
What one earns in three or four
days of work is what it costs
to buy one kilogram of rice.
NADJA DROST: Morales
can't feed her family.
KATIUSKA MORALES (through
translator): When the boy says,
mama, I want food, I can't find
the way to tell
him there is none.
NADJA DROST: The only thing in
the family's kitchen today are
mangoes, stored in the oven
under the attentive eye of
3-year-old David, who searches
amongst the bruised fruit for
a good one.
With its economy in freefall,
and food prices skyrocketing,
many Venezuelans are eating
less and less every day.
One recent study found that,
in the last year, 75 percent
of Venezuelans lost an average
of 19 pounds.
But it is children who
are suffering the most,
and severe malnutrition
among them is rising
at an alarming rate.
Three out of Morales' six
children have been diagnosed
with severe malnutrition.
She's most worried about
her 10-month old baby.
KATIUSKA MORALES (through
translator): I see her small.
She doesn't grow.
She doesn't try
crawling or walking.
I feel I have to be careful that
she doesn't fall to the side.
It's like she's faint.
NADJA DROST: Back in Caracas,
Susana Raffalli, who specializes
in food emergencies for the
Catholic charity Caritas,
has carried out a
study on malnutrition.
SUSANA RAFFALLI, Caritas
(through translator):
We have gone from having
8 percent of children
with severe malnutrition
in October, to 12 percent
in just four months.
When a child loses 30 to 40
percent of their weight, that's
called severe malnutrition.
Why is that severe?
Because the child is so
skinny, it is at risk of dying.
NADJA DROST: In a country
sitting on the biggest
oil reserves in the
world, why has it become
so difficult for so many to eat?
Almost entirely reliant
on oil exports, Venezuela
barely produces anything
of its own, and has
relied hugely on food imports.
But with oil revenues down,
corruption and an economy in
shambles, the government hardly
has any dollars to
sell to importers.
SUSANA RAFFALLI (through
translator): There is at least
a 30 to 40 percent shortage in
the availability of food,
because it's not being produced,
nor is it getting imported.
We don't know how this
void will get filled.
NADJA DROST: To alleviate
the scarcity, the government
recently decided to loosen its
monopoly on many food imports
to allow other importers
to bring in staples.
Some shortages have eased,
but now, with triple-digit
inflation driving up
prices, few can afford
to pay for even the
most basic goods.
We're on our way to one of the
biggest hospitals in Caracas
to visit the pediatric unit.
But four years ago, when the
crisis started deepening, the
government banned the use of
any cameras inside hospitals.
Because of that, and the fact
that the hospital and the area
around it is full of military
and government=aligned militia,
we're going to have to try
to enter unnoticed, and with
a hidden camera.
Once inside, we follow Dr. Livia
Machado, an expert in child
nutrition, into the emergency
ward for children.
This baby's diagnosis?
Malnutrition, at
seven months old.
DR.
LIVIA MACHADO, Child Nutrition
Expert (through translator): She
was born six-and-a-half pounds.
Now she weighs seven.
The economic conditions now
don't allow her to buy formula.
WOMAN (through translator):
It became more expensive,
and I couldn't afford it.
DR.
LIVIA MACHADO (through
translator): The most important
thing is that there's no access
to baby formula.
You can't get it in the country.
And when you can, it's
at such high prices.
How much did you pay the
last time for formula?
WOMAN: Twenty thousand bolivars.
NADJA DROST: That's a third
of a month's minimum wage for
three days' worth of formula.
Five of the 20 children in this
unit have severe malnutrition.
Dr. Machado worries about the
increase in cases she sees.
DR.
LIVIA MACHADO (through
translator): But even
more worrisome, and
something I have never
seen and that strikes me as
critical, are children who
are between half-a-year and a
year-old and they have
never even gained two
pounds in their whole life.
NADJA DROST: Like this baby.
DR.
LIVIA MACHADO (through
translator): Her condition
is very critical, from a
respiratory and metabolic
perspective, and everything
that triggered this was hunger.
NADJA DROST: I ask how
many months old she is.
DR.
LIVIA MACHADO (through
translator): Eleven
months, almost a year.
And she doesn't even
weigh nine pounds.
NADJA DROST: Dr. Machado says
this baby's mother hardly
eats anything herself in order
to give what she can
to her six children.
But it's been woefully
inadequate, and brought the
baby to a critical state.
The child has suffered
two cardiac arrests here.
She died the next day.
But it's not just the
deadly malnutrition.
There is little medication to
treat the many complications
that it can cause.
Hospitals have less
than 5 percent of the
medications they need.
the desperation of doctors
and nurses trying to work with
broken equipment and without
lifesaving treatments
is driving them into
the streets to protest.
What do they want?
WOMAN (through translator):
Supplies for hospitals,
food, medicine, to be able
to attend to patients.
NADJA DROST: The flow
of medicines into the
country has plummeted
after most foreign drug
companies cut off ties
with Venezuela over $6
billion-plus in unpaid debts.
To ease the shortage, these
doctors and nurses are demanding
that the government open what
they call a humanitarian
channel to allow for
donations of medications.
The government has said
that accepting humanitarian
relief would expose Venezuela
to foreign intervention.
But some organizations are
finding ways around what they
say amounts to a government ban
on aid.
Accion Solidaria is part
of a coalition promoting
health rights, Codevida.
Its president, Francisco
Valencia, leads us to a storage
room that's been converted to
what looks like a well-organized
ad hoc pharmacy that accepts
donations of medications and
distributes them to Venezuelans.
FRANCISCO VALENCIA, Codevida
(through translator): Here,
all of these medications
come from abroad.
Because of the situation
here, you can't get
these medications here.
Here, we have
painkillers, antibiotics.
There's medicine for
children as well.
NADJA DROST: The supplies
are sent by Venezuelans
and other donors from
around the world, but
in small packages, to
avoid suspicion and bypass
customs authorities.
FRANCISCO VALENCIA
(through translator):
Door-to-door deliveries.
They're sent privately.
NADJA DROST: Like
a courier company.
Once Valencia and his colleagues
categorize the new shipments,
they announce their stockpile
over Twitter, Facebook and
on local radio stations.
Their hot line number is flooded
with calls from Venezuelans
wanting to claim the medicines
FRANCISCO VALENCIA (through
translator): So far, we have
been able to give medication
to over 5,000 people.
NADJA DROST: But Valencia knows
that what they provide is a
mere drop in a sea of need.
FRANCISCO VALENCIA (through
translator): If you see this
here, it's not a quantity to
supply all of Venezuela.
NADJA DROST: Valencia and
others in health organizations
say the government needs to
recognize that Venezuela
is facing a humanitarian
crisis, and one that
warrants government and
international action.
SUSANA RAFFALLI (through
translator): What we're asking
is that they do something and
make available the resources
that are needed here, because
it's not just Caritas that is
sounding the alarm
of what will happen.
It is happening to us.
And there are children with
malnutrition dying in hospitals.
NADJA DROST: For the
"PBS NewsHour," reporting
with Bruno Federico, I'm
Nadja Drost in Caracas.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Next: You
need some cash real quick?
Economics correspondent Paul
Solman explores why, for some
customers, the best bet might
not be the bank.
It's part of his weekly series
Making Sense of financial news.
JOE COLEMAN, President,
RiteCheck: And this
is East 138th Street,
which in many ways is
the Wall Street of the Bronx.
You have got a lot of
financial service providers
along the street, bodegas.
You have small money remitters.
PAUL SOLMAN: And there's a
pawn shop, not the kind of
financier you would find on the
actual Wall Street.
But, hey, this is the South
Bronx, poorest congressional
district in America, where some
40 percent of residents
live below the poverty line.
JOE COLEMAN: The main service
provider on the street is
RiteCheck, where we have our
financial service center.
PAUL SOLMAN: Joe Coleman is
president of this chain of 14
stores in the South Bronx and
Harlem.
They will cash your checks,
pay your bills, transfer money
24 hours a day, 365 days a
year.
Something like half these
customers are unbanked,
meaning they have no
bank account on purpose.
Jose Benitez is a
construction contractor.
JOSE BENITEZ, Construction
Contractor (through translator):
Every time you go to a bank,
there's a problem.
You lose time.
PAUL SOLMAN: The bank takes too
long to cash checks, he says.
WOMAN: Can you sign
there for me, please?
PAUL SOLMAN: And, says
cashier Jackie Morel (ph):
JACKIE MOREL, Cashier:
The bank don't offer all
the services that we do.
We have prepaid cards.
They pay their bills,
pay their rent.
It's different things that
they can do in one place.
PAUL SOLMAN: But the best
alternative is check cashers,
payday lenders, pawn shops?
Maybe you assume what I did,
that they prey on the poor.
Suzanne Martindale is
with Consumers Union.
SUZANNE MARTINDALE, Consumers
Union: Many of these products
really strip away what few
assets consumers have.
If you're constantly paying
a fee to cash a check, you're
losing money on the deal,
compared to if you
simply had an account and
were depositing checks.
PAUL SOLMAN: Yet check cashing
alone nearly doubled to $60
billion from 2000 to 2010.
Why, wondered Lisa Servon?
LISA SERVON, University of
Pennsylvania: It didn't make
sense to me that people would
be using a service like
this in increasing numbers
if it was so bad for them.
I had done work in low-income
neighborhoods for 20 years, and
I knew that people who don't
have very much money know
where every penny goes.
So, that's when I scratched
my head and I realized there's
got to be more to the story.
PAUL SOLMAN: To find out,
Servon worked as a cashier at
this RiteCheck for four months
and then wrote a book,
"The Unbanking of America."
She returned to the window when
we visited, and was reminded
of what she'd learned: People
on the edge have no savings,
and often need access to every
cent they get can their hands
on right away.
LISA SERVON: One of the things
that we do here is to take
money off of people's EBT
cards.
That's electronics benefit
transfer, what you get.
It's kind of the equivalent
of welfare these days.
Right?
And we give you how much you
want from that, minus a $2 fee.
One day, a woman came
in and she wanted -- she
said had $10 on her card.
So, I ran the transaction
and I gave her $8.
And after she left, I just
was scratching my head and
thinking, wow, she just paid me
20 percent of what
was available to her.
PAUL SOLMAN: Cashier Jackie
Morel, who taught Servon
the ropes here, explained.
LISA SERVON: Jackie says,
well, the ATMs don't give
you $8 or $13 or $28.
They give you multiples
of $20, maybe $10, if
you're lucky, right?
So, suddenly, something that
seems illogical makes sense,
because you realize that she
needed that $8.
She needed every dollar that
she could get access to, and
it was worth it to her to spend
$2 in order to get it.
Time and again, working at the
window, I was able to really
see those things, sometimes
ask questions, then
really see like, oh, this
is logical, actually.
I would probably do
the same thing if I
was in that situation.
PAUL SOLMAN: Joe
Coleman goes further.
Firms like his, with regulated
maximum rates, were actually a
reform move by New York state
back in 1944, when check
cashing was a truly free market.
JOE COLEMAN: It was being
done in bars and restaurants.
It was the Wild West.
They could charge you 20,
30 percent to cash a check.
PAUL SOLMAN: And while the fees
may seem high, says Servon,
they're completely transparent,
unlike at banks, when you
rarely know what you're paying.
LISA SERVON: The signage that
spans the teller windows looks
exactly like what you would
see at a fast-food restaurant
like McDonald's, and it tells
you that it costs 2.03 percent
of the face value of your check
to cash it, $1.50 to pay a
bill, $0.89 for a money order.
All of that
information is there.
PAUL SOLMAN: Servon
also found that, for
those with no financial
cushion, cashing checks
here can be cheaper
than at a bank.
LISA SERVON: If they
have deposited that check
in the bank, it would
take three or four days
to clear.
When they come here, they
can use that cash right away.
And they won't be subject to
the kind of mistiming at a bank
that could lead to an overdraft
fee of $35.
PAUL SOLMAN: Enough volume, and
even the smallest fees add up.
So, RiteCheck caters
to folks that big banks
aren't much interested in.
Robert Flexer is a
RiteCheck devotee.
ROBERT FLEXER, Uses
RiteCheck: The people are
so beautiful with you.
They're so beautiful
and humble and lovable.
PAUL SOLMAN: Jackie Morel
has worked behind the
counter for 14 years.
How many of the people who come
in here do you know personally?
JACKIE MOREL: Eighty-five
percent that comes
here every week.
Everybody know me in the
street and everything.
They bring me food.
They bring me
presents for my kids.
They bring me everything.
(LAUGHTER)
PAUL SOLMAN: OK, maybe there
are good reasons to use check
cashers, but surely not payday
lenders, so common
in cash-strapped
communities these days.
Servon writes that there are
more payday lenders in the U.S.
than Starbucks and McDonald's
combined.
And she herself
did a stint at one.
LISA SERVON: Where I worked
in California, they cost $15
per $100 borrowed, which comes
out to an APR of 400
percent or 600 percent.
PAUL SOLMAN: That's APR,
annual percentage rate, because
it's 15 percent, $15 on 100.
LISA SERVON: Yes.
That's right.
A lot of people end up
not being able to pay
the loan when it's due.
And this is where
the problem comes in.
Right?
If you can't pay that $100
loan back in two weeks, you
basically end up taking out that
loan again and paying another
$15 for another two weeks.
So, now you're
paying $30 on $100.
Right?
And if you roll it over five
or six times, you're paying
way more than you borrowed.
PAUL SOLMAN: But look,
says Joe Coleman:
JOE COLEMAN: There's
nowhere to go to get a
couple hundred dollars.
The payday industry has
evolved organically to solve a
short-term, immediate problem.
And I don't do the
product, by the way.
In New York -- we don't do
payday lending in New York.
PAUL SOLMAN: But you would?
JOE COLEMAN: Yes, I would
if I could, because it's
a reasonable product, if
you use it responsibly
in the way it's designed.
PAUL SOLMAN: Not surprisingly,
Suzanne Martindale of
Consumers Union disagrees.
SUZANNE MARTINDALE: The evidence
has been clear and damning
for many, many years that
the vast majority of people
that start to take out payday
loans end up in a cycle of
debt.
PAUL SOLMAN: Eighty percent of
payday loans are re-borrowed
within 14 days, and almost
90 percent are re-borrowed
within 60 days.
In fact, Servon says:
LISA SERVON: What's interesting
is that even my boss at the
payday lender said, payday
is a lousy product, but
we're filling a need that
nobody else will fill.
PAUL SOLMAN: But aren't
the payday lenders taking
advantage of these people?
LISA SERVON: It's a very hard
question to answer, the question
really being, are payday
loans helpful or harmful, or,
alternatively, is very expensive
credit better than no credit
at all?
And I would say that the jury
is still out on that question.
We talk about getting rid of
the lenders without recognizing
that the demand is still there.
And the demand is still there
because we have had declining
wages since the '70s,.
Income volatility has doubled
over the past 30 years, so
people have much less ability
to predict how much money
is coming into their
household from week to week.
PAUL SOLMAN: And the less
predictable the income, says
Joe Coleman, the greater the
need for check cashing,
for payday lending even.
JOE COLEMAN: Voltaire said
of the supreme being that,
if he didn't exist, we'd have
to invent him.
And the same can be
said for our industry.
If we didn't exist, you
would have to invent us.
People need the service.
PAUL SOLMAN: For the
"PBS NewsHour," this is
economics correspondent
Paul Solman reporting
from the South Bronx.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now to issues
of policing, race and the
law, issues in the forefront
of the news once again.
John Yang has our look.
A warning: This story includes
images of violence that
viewers may find disturbing.
JERONIMO YANEZ, St. Anthony
Police Department: Hello, sir.
JOHN YANG: This week, the public
got to see the dash-cam video
of last July's fatal police
shooting of Philando Castile
outside St. Paul, Minnesota.
Jurors had watched it several
times before acquitting
officer Jeronimo Yanez.
A conversation about a broken
taillight quickly turned tense.
PHILANDO CASTILE, Killed by
Police Officer: Sir, I have to
tell you, I do have a firearm
on me.
JERONIMO YANEZ: OK.
OK.
Don't reach for it then.
Don't pull it out.
PHILANDO CASTILE: I'm
not pulling it out.
JERONIMO YANEZ:
Don't pull it out.
(GUNSHOTS)
JOHN YANG: Prosecutors said
Castile, who had a permit for
the gun, was reaching for his
driver's license.
Yanez said he thought he
was reaching for his gun.
The day he was acquitted,
Yanez was fired.
Since 2005, 82 U.S. law
enforcement officers
have been charged with
murder or manslaughter
for on-duty shootings,
according to Bowling Green State
University criminologist Philip
Stinson.
So far, 29 have been convicted,
five of them for murder.
Yesterday, a jury found
former Milwaukee police
officer Dominique
Heaggan-Brown not guilty
of reckless homicide
for shooting Sylville
Smith last August.
In court, Smith's family
shouted and cursed.
Body-camera video
caught Heaggan-Brown's
brief chase of Smith.
Heaggan-Brown's first shot
came as Smith appeared to
throw a gun over a fence.
A second shot hit
Smith in the chest.
DOMINIQUE HEAGGAN-BROWN,
Milwaukee Police
Department: Stop reaching!
Stop -- move!
Move!
JOHN YANG: He said he
acted in self-defense.
The shooting sparked
two nights of riots.
And police use of deadly
force is under scrutiny
again in Seattle, where
officers in shot and
killed Charleena Lyles,
a 30-year-old pregnant
woman who had called
police to report a burglary
at her apartment Sunday.
She had two kitchen knives
and, her family said,
mental health problems.
As protesters took to the
streets, Seattle police, who
are investigating the incident,
acknowledged the officers
had less lethal options.
So, why do so many -- few -- so
few trials of police officers
charged in on-duty shootings
end in convictions?
To explore that question,
we're joined by two guests,
first, on Skype, David Klinger.
He's a criminologist at the
University of Missouri-Saint
Louis and a former Los Angeles
police officer.
And here in the studio, Brittany
Packnett, a co-founder of
Campaign Zero, which is pressing
for police reform.
She served on President Barack
Obama's Police Reform Task
Force and is one of a number of
leaders in the Black
Lives Matter movement.
Thank you both for joining us.
I want to ask you first, the
two of you the same question.
Brittany, let me start with you.
Why does it -- is it seemingly
so few of these police trials,
police shooting trials end
in convictions?
BRITTANY PACKNETT, Co-Founder,
Campaign Zero: It's because
this is more than an individual
issue.
It's a systematic issue.
So often we hear the
conversation that it's
about bad apples and
bad actors, but, at the
end of the day, if this
were just about individuals,
we wouldn't see less than
1 percent of convictions
in all police shootings.
Of the 1,155 people who were
killed by police in 2016, there
were only 13 charges brought,
and so far we have
seen no convictions.
At the end of the day, this
is a systematic issue that we
have to look at, both from a
cultural perspective
and a policy one.
JOHN YANG: David
Klinger, what's you take?
DAVID KLINGER, Professor,
University of Missouri-Saint
Louis: Well, there's
really two issues.
One is the number of
charges that are levied.
And then number two is the
conviction rate for those
where charges have been brought
forth.
And in terms of why so
few charges are brought
forth, I think, if you
take an honest look
at the vast, vast majority
of officer-involved
shootings, there is no
criminal element whatsoever.
For those that do lead to
criminal charges, sometimes,
there is overcharge,
and then sometimes
there are situations where I
and friends of mine, others
in this profession, we scratch
our heads and don't understand
how the acquittal came about.
But we always have to trust
in the jury, and that's
where we rest with this.
JOHN YANG: David,
let my stay with you.
Are the laws written
in a way that makes it
tougher for convictions?
DAVID KLINGER: Well, I think one
of the things that people have
to understand is that there's
basically a federal standard
that was laid down in Graham
vs. Connor, which is a 1989
U.S. Supreme Court ruling that
says you have to look at it
through the eyes of a reasonable
officer on the scene.
And so what has happened over
the years is that most states,
that I'm aware of at least,
they basically incorporate
this standard of an objectively
reasonable officer on the scene.
And then what happens is, we
have a situation where defense
attorneys explain to the jury
what a reasonable officer
at the scene could have
or should have done.
And then the jury has to look
at it that way typically.
Now, there's always differences
across the 50 states in terms
of their justifiable homicide
statute.
But I think that's the core
understanding across the country
about how it is that police
officers are to be judged.
And so, consequently, when you
have jurors who are novices
getting educated, a good defense
attorney makes an argument, and
the jury says, oh, that make
sense, I understand that that
officer could have been fearful
or could have perceived that
his or her life was in jeopardy,
and an acquittal is forthcoming,
and, as I indicated, sometimes
clearly so, and, other
times, it leaves many of us
who are in the profession
scratching our head, because we
know there's bad shootings
and we know there's bad cops.
JOHN YANG: Brittany, you
have heard the explanation
of the law from David.
What's your response?
What's your take on this?
BRITTANY PACKNETT: I
would say it's twofold.
One is that we actually do
have to look at the letter of
the law and the ways in which
it's insufficient.
At Campaign Zero, we did a
report on the use of force.
We found the research that
there are eight policies that
both police departments and
state legislatures can take
on that will demonstrably
diminish the possibility
of police violence.
Very few police departments
engage in five of --
even five of those.
And if it's not legal, then
it's not punishable in the court
system, so that's certainly an
area in which we need to look.
And we need to make
those laws stronger.
The other point, though, that
we have to not be afraid the
look at is the issue of race.
At the end of the day, black
people in this country are
killed at a rate of three times
higher than other
folks by police.
And if blackness is seen as the
only weapon that you are armed
with, it is still considered
lethal in this country.
We continue to find that in
the number of charges and
convictions that are brought.
We continue to find
that in places like
Seattle with Charleena
Myles -- Lyles, rather.
And, at the end of the day,
my blackness is not a weapon.
It's just my skin.
Until we handle our issue of
racism in this country, we're
not going to see an issue -- an
end to this issue.
JOHN YANG: A lot of cities
try to address that, Brittany,
very diversifying the police
force, by getting more diverse
faces on the police force.
Is that an answer?
BRITTANY PACKNETT: I certainly
think that's part of it.
But it's not a single issue.
And so we can't have a
single answer, right?
We have to look at issues of
inherent bias, which, quite
frankly, especially issues of
anti-blackness, are not just
about white people or whether
or not you're a person of color.
We also have to look at issues
of training, support, again,
use of force policies, making
sure that, as a citizen, I can
walk around and feel safe in
my community by someone who
has sworn an oath to
serve and protect me.
JOHN YANG: David, Brittany
mentioned training.
In the Seattle case we just
heard in that tape piece,
the police acknowledged those
offers had non-lethal
options that they didn't use.
How much is this
a training issue?
DAVID KLINGER: I think
a big piece of it.
And I would argue that
the race issue is one
that gets overplayed.
And what I mean by that is this.
If we look at shootings that
could have been prevented, and
it goes back the training and
tactics, we can pretty
much eliminate, in my
opinion, the race piece.
So, for example, here in Saint
Louis, myself and Rick Rosenfeld
and two other colleagues
were able to look at the spatial
patterns of officer-involved
shootings in the city
of Saint Louis.
And at first, it clearly
looks as if race plays a role,
but once you control for the
levels of crime across
neighborhoods, that drops out.
And so that's one example of
why I'm not going to get on to
the issue of race being the key.
I really think it has to deal
with the tactical performance
of police officers across the
board dealing with
whites, blacks, Hispanics,
males, females, where
they don't use sound
tactics that then lead
to the shootings that we
scratch our heads over.
And the issue with Seattle,
when they say they had
non-lethal options, that doesn't
necessarily mean they
had non-lethal options
to be employed in that
situation, but rather
that they had non-lethal
options with them.
And so I'm not quite
sure what that means.
The Seattle situation may well
have been one of those where
they could have employed a
non-lethal option and they
didn't, or it may simply mean
that they had them with them.
And so we have to wait and
see what the details show.
JOHN YANG: Brittany,
you mentioned both
training and race.
How do you balance
those two issues?
BRITTANY PACKNETT: I
don't think that it's an
either/or proposition.
I certainly agree that there are
tactical issues, as Professor
Klinger has already said.
But if race weren't an issue,
we wouldn't be being killed
at three times the rate of
others.
We did this research at
mapping police violence,
which is another project
of Campaign Zero.
And from looking over three
years of data for community
violence across the 60 largest
police departments in
the country and comparing
that to rates of police
violence, there is
absolutely no correlation
between community violence
and police violence.
In fact, in places like Virginia
Beach, where there is a very
low incidence of community
violence, there is a very high
incidence of police violence,
and everyone that Virginia
Beach killed in 2015 was black.
So, I refuse to ignore the
race question in this issue.
And if we do ignore
race in this issue, then
we do so at our peril.
JOHN YANG: Brittany Packnett,
David Klinger, thank
you both for joining us.
Sadly, I think this is an issue
we will be talking about again.
But thank you for joining us.
BRITTANY PACKNETT: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And now back
to Judy in Colorado at the
Spotlight Health Conference.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Here at
the Aspen conference,
there's conversation
about ways to improve
health beyond hospitals,
doctors' offices,
and health clubs.
Some of you may recognize
Joy Crump from her time
as a contestant on the
TV show "Top Chef."
Joy Crump now runs
three farm-to-table
restaurants in Virginia.
And she spoke to us
about how the food we
eat affects our health.
JOY CRUMP, Restaurant
Owner: My name is Joy Crump.
I have three restaurants
in Virginia, and I was on
season 12 of "Top Chef."
I'm here at Spotlight
Health to shine a light
on the connectivity
between food and community
and your personal health.
In the past decade or so,
maybe a little bit beyond that
decade, we really began to drill
down into the connection
between locality, where our
food comes from, and health.
It's something that
we grew up with.
We always grew up going towards
what was closest to us, what
was most readily available, what
was in season, and
what was cheapest.
It was what tasted best.
Those things mattered to us.
And now I think, as a
nation, we're insisting
that we understand
where things come from,
that we have a correlation
between our food and
our communities in which
our food is produced.
The idea that that has to be
expensive or that that is of
a quality level that everyone
shouldn't have access
to is sort of ludicrous.
It's actually the opposite.
You have to get used to eating
the things that don't pass
the test of getting into like
a Whole Foods market, but
are still ecologically
sound, locally produced,
organically farmed,
picked by hand, traveled a
short distance to get you.
They may just have
brown spots on them.
You may just be subject to
something that's not so pretty.
I can buy a beautiful bushel
of peaches in the middle of the
summer for $40 for a bushel.
What I hope to share with young
people that I work with in
the restaurants and even the
younger kids that I work with
is a respect for the journey
that food travels in order
to get from where it
comes from to our forks.
We have to recognize that
farmers bent down and picked
things out of ground in order to
get those vegetables
on our plate.
Once we do that, I think we
will become less cavalier about
how much we waste, and more
intent on sharing
and celebrating the
food that we have.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sounds
like good advice to me.
And that's it from
Aspen for tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that's
it from aspen for tonight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Join us online and again
here tomorrow evening
with Mark Shields and
David Brooks to analyze
the week's news.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank you.
See you soon.